SHARE OF MEMBER OF AN ASSOCIATION OF PERSONS OR BODY OF INDIVIDUALS IN THE
INCOME OF THE ASSOCIATION OR BODY [SECTION 86]

Section 86 provides that no income tax shall be payable by the assessee who is a member of an association
of persons or body of individuals (other than, a company or a co-operative society or a society registered under
the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or under any law corresponding to that Act in force in any part of India) in
respect of his share in the income of such association or body computed in the manner provided in Section 67A
of the Act.
Further, where the association or body is chargeable to tax at the maximum marginal rate or any higher rate
under any of the provisions of this Act, the share of a member computed as aforesaid shall not be included in
his total income. However, in any other case, the share of a member shall form part of his total income.
It is also provided that where no income-tax is chargeable on the total income of the association or body. The
share of a member computed as aforesaid shall be chargeable to tax as part of his total income and nothing
contained in this section shall apply to the case.



REBATE OF INCOME-TAX IN CASE OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS [SECTION 87A]

Section 87A provides rebate of income tax to resident individual, whose total income does not exceed Rs
3,50,000. The amount of rebate is Rs 12,500 or 100% of income tax whichever is less. It is deductible from
income tax before calculating health and education cess.


RELIEF WHEN SALARY IS PAID IN ARREARS OR IN ADVANCE [SECTION 89]

Section 89 provides relief to an individual who receives any portion of his salary in arrears or in advance or
receives profit in lieu of salary during the previous year. The assessee may apply to the Assessing Officer
who is been empowered to grant relief in appropriate cases in accordance with Rule 21AA of the Income-tax
Rules, 1962. However, no such relief shall be granted in respect of any amount received or receivable by an
assessee on his voluntary retirement or termination of his service, in accordance with any scheme or schemes
of voluntary retirement or in the case of a public sector company referred to in sub clause (i) of clause (10C) of
section 10, a scheme of voluntary separation, if an exemption in respect of any amount received or receivable
on such voluntary retirement or termination of his service or voluntary separation has been claimed by the
assessee under clause (10C) of section 10 in respect of such, or any other, assessment year